.TH L2tpIPsecVpn 1 "11 Oct 2012" "version 1.0.9"
.SH NAME
\fBL2tpIPsecVpn\fP \- L2tp over IPsec VPN Manager applet for the GNOME Desktop

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B L2tpIPsecVpn
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This GUI is not a network manager plugin. However, it provides a systray
icon in the indicator applet from which a non privileged user can establish
and bring down L2TP over IPsec VPN connections.

From there the user can add, remove and edit vpn connections.

Editing allows configuring various options for IPsec, L2TP and PPP.

Among others, the user can configure eg. the gateway, the use of either
PSK or a certificate for authentication, various L2TP options as redial-
timeout and attempts and of course all important PPP options. It also
allows you to configure PPP for tunnel splitting because you can add
routes as you want.

When applying your settings, all necessary configuration files are written
accordingly (ipsec.conf, xl2tp.conf, options.xl2tpd, opensc.conf up and
down scripts ...).

It relies on Openswan and xl2tp packages as the underlying protocol
handlers.

You can also use certificates on your local machine or, if e.g. OpenSC is
installed and configured, even on a smart card to handle PPP
authentication.

The GUI automatically detects when network interfaces are going up or
down and can (if so configured) automatically establish or close VPN
connections.

.LP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fBstartConnectionEditor\fR
Starts the connection editor dialog.

.TP
\fBapplySettings\fR
Write configuration files according to the connection settings, must be
started with root privileges, ie use gksudo as non root user.

.TP
\fBdeleteAllConfFiles\fR
Delete all configuration files, must be
started with root privileges, ie use gksudo as non root user.

.SH AUTHORS
Werner Jaeger

